docs: guide on workarounds for resource congestion (#96)
zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk: docs/guides/ce-resource-management.rst

Compute Engine Resource Management
=======================

Workflows submitted to run on Compute Engine can specify the computational resources they require, enabling precise management of resources and costs.

.. note::
    Resource management is supported only when executing on Compute Engine runtimes. Tasks and workflows defined with these parameters may still be executed on other runtimes, however the resource specification will be ignored.

Setting Task Resources
----------------------

Required hardware resources are configured on a per-task basis by setting the ``resources`` field of the task decorator:

.. code-block::
   :caption: task resource request example

    @sdk.task(
        resources=sdk.Resources(cpu="100m", memory="1Gi", disk="10Gi", gpu="1")
    )
    def my_task():
        ...

``resources`` expects a ``sdk.Resources()`` object that specifies some or all of:
* number of cores (``cpu``)
* amount of RAM (``memory``)
* disk space (``disk``)

> * number of GPU computing units (``gpu``)

Reviewer: This is currently an "on" or "off", with `gpu="1"` or `gpu="0"`

The example above specifies a task that requires 100 milicores (or 0.1 cores), 1 Gb of RAM, 10 Gb of disk space, and access to a GPU.

Setting Workflow Resources
--------------------------

Resources can also be configured at the workflow definition level using the same syntax as with tasks:

.. code-block::
    :caption: workflow resource request example

    @sdk.workflow(

>         resources=sdk.Resources(cpu="100m", memory="1Gi", disk="10Gi", gpu="1")

Reviewer: Can you explain what the different suffixes mean?
What's "100m" CPUs, how does it relate to a single core. What about "Gi" vs "Mi" vs "G" vs "M" for memory.

Author: [9b2fd18](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/9b2fd18710b2b04cb2a8e0b085ae691a68d72837)

    )
    def my_workflow():
        ...

> In most cases, defining resources in this way will be unnecessary as Compute Engine can infer the overall resource requirements from the aggregated requirements of individual tasks. The primary use-case for this facility is to provision additional resources that aren't covered by the task definitions, such as when tasks spawn additional processes.

Reviewer: Is this implemented yet?

Author: It is now

> In most cases, defining resources in this way will be unnecessary as Compute Engine can infer the overall resource requirements from the aggregated requirements of individual tasks. The primary use-case for this facility is to provision additional resources that aren't covered by the task definitions, such as when tasks spawn additional processes.

Reviewer: What about requesting additional nodes?

Author: [17555c5](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/17555c56495c0fb590dd73a2151b5a81803a3b64)

Troubleshooting Common Resource Issues
--------------------------------------

> A deadlock can be created on Compute Engine if a task attempts to spawn additional processes, notably via the DNQ ``rollouts`` facility. Resources requested in a task definition are bound to the task process, so additional processes can rapidly exhaust the provisioned resources. In these cases, additional resources should be specified in the workflow decorator.

Reviewer: Could you mention this is to do with Ray's RLLib?

.. code-block::
    :caption: Example: override workflow resources.
    @sdk.task(resources=...)                    # task resources requested.
    def task():
        config = DQNConfig()
        ...

>         config.rollouts(num_rollout_workers=2)  # child processes do not have access to

Reviewer: This isn't a "child process" in this case. This is using Ray under the hood

Author: [23c00a1](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/23c00a19a968242096a5c1f13b9aa9e12c2d54b7)

Reviewer: This still mentions processes, but it's to do with Ray's resource allocation which is related to actors or remote functions

Author: How about this version: [f9682ac](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/f9682ac1f862b88758e76ffcc823976e4540b130) less 'process' more 'actors and remote functions'

Compute Engine Resource Management
=======================

Workflows submitted to run on Compute Engine can specify the computational resources they require, enabling precise management of resources and costs.

.. note::
    Resource management is supported only when executing on Compute Engine runtimes. Tasks and workflows defined with these parameters may still be executed on other runtimes, however the resource specification will be ignored.

Setting Task Resources
----------------------

Required hardware resources are configured on a per-task basis by setting the ``resources`` field of the task decorator:

.. code-block::
   :caption: task resource request example

    @sdk.task(
        resources=sdk.Resources(cpu="100m", memory="1Gi", disk="10Gi", gpu="1")
    )
    def my_task():
        ...

``resources`` expects a ``sdk.Resources()`` object that specifies some or all of:
* ``cpu``: number of cores.
* ``memory``: amount of RAM (bytes).
* ``disk``: disk space (bytes).
* ``gpu``: whether access to a gpu unit is required (``1`` if a GPU is required, ``0`` otherwise).

> Amounts of cpu and memory resources can be specified as a plain integer, or as a fixed-point float appended with the string representation of one of the following unit prefixes. These can be SI (metric), or IEC (binary) prefixes. The specified prefix will be used to modify the base unit for the parameter, 'byte' in the case of ``memory`` and ``disk`` requests, 'cores' in the case of ``cpu`` requests. So ``disk="10k"`` will be interpreted as '10 kilobytes', while ``cpu="10k"`` would request 10^7 cores.

Reviewer: Suffixes, not prefixes! I made the same mistake the other day 😅

Author: Okay so this is definitely something we need to be careful about the language on. They're prefixes w.r.t. the unit, but suffixes w.r.t. the actual string you write. 'Prefixes' makes sense to me, but as you point out are likely to cause confusion, so we should avoid using the word.
What do you think about:

```suggestion
Amounts of cpu and memory resources are specified by a string comprising a floating point value, and, optionally, a modifier to the base unit ('byte' in the case of ``memory`` and ``disk`` requests, 'cores' in the case of ``cpu`` requests). The modifier can be a SI (metric), or IEC (binary) multiplier as detailed in the table below. So ``disk="10k"`` will be interpreted as '10 kilobytes', while ``cpu="10k"`` would request 10^7 cores.
```

Reviewer: Ahh yeah you're right! suffix to the "number" but prefix to the "unit".

I think your suggestion is good.

        ...

``resources`` expects a ``sdk.Resources()`` object that specifies some or all of:
* ``cpu``: number of cores.
* ``memory``: amount of RAM (bytes).
* ``disk``: disk space (bytes).
* ``gpu``: whether access to a gpu unit is required (``1`` if a GPU is required, ``0`` otherwise).

> Amounts of cpu and memory resources can be specified as a plain integer, or as a fixed-point float appended with the string representation of one of the following unit prefixes. These can be SI (metric), or IEC (binary) prefixes.

Reviewer: > Amounts of cpu and memory resources can be specified as a plain integer

They have to be a string, atm.

.. table:: unit prefixes
    :widths: auto

    +---------+-------+--------+------------+----------------+-----------------+
    |         | Name  | String | Power of 2 | Power of 1024  | Power of 10     |
    +=========+=======+========+============+================+=================+

>     | Binary  | kibi  | ki     | 2^10       | 1024^1         | 1.024 x 10^3    |

Reviewer: This is a capital "K"?
See https://github.com/kubernetes/apimachinery/blob/v0.26.2/pkg/api/resource/quantity.go#L54

Author: "I didn't choose the capitalization" lol
```suggestion
    | Binary  | kibi  | Ki     | 2^10       | 1024^1         | 1.024 x 10^3    |
```

    |         | gibi  | Gi     | 2^30       | 1024^3         | ~ 1.074 x 10^9  |
    |         | tebi  | Ti     | 2^40       | 1024^4         | ~ 1.100 x 10^12 |
    |         | pebi  | Pi     | 2^50       | 1024^5         | ~ 1.126 x 10^15 |
    |         | exbi  | Ei     | 2^60       | 1025^6         | ~ 1.153 x 10^18 |
    +---------+-------+--------+------------+----------------+-----------------+
    | Metric  | nano  | n      | ~ 2^-29.90 | ~ 1024^-2.990  | 10^-9           |
    |         | micro | u      | ~ 2^-19.93 | ~ 1024^-1.993  | 10^-6           |
    |         | milli | m      | ~ 2^-9.966 | ~ 1024^-0.9966 | 10^-3           |
    |         | kilo  | k      | ~ 2^9.966  | ~ 1024^0.9966  | 10^3            |
    |         | mega  | M      | ~ 2^19.93  | ~ 1024^1.993   | 10^6            |
    |         | giga  | G      | ~ 2^29.90  | ~ 1024^2.990   | 10^9            |
    |         | tera  | T      | ~ 2^39.86  | ~ 1024^3.986   | 10^12           |
    |         | peta  | P      | ~ 2^49.83  | ~ 1024^4.983   | 10^15           |
    |         | exa   | E      | ~ 2^59.79  | ~ 1024^5.979   | 10^18           |

>     +---------+-------+--------+------------+----------------+-----------------+

Reviewer: The table is kinda complicated. Do we need all three powers?

Author: Good point, people probably aren't going to want to convert between units all that often. [781f0a8](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/781f0a84bf23f3773462a53f80c8b217a74ae054) cuts it down to a single column 'value' and uses 2^n for Binary and 10^n for Metric.

.. note:: mixing unit prefixes
    Binary and decimal units can be used interchangeably, however this can occasionally cause confusion, and care must be taken when specifying these parameters. For example, a memory request of ``100m`` specifies not 100 megabytes, but 100 millibytes, or 0.1 bytes.

> .. TODO: uncomment and check this section when workflow resource management is implemented (https://zapatacomputing.atlassian.net/browse/ORQSDK-797?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiNGU1MDU0NjFhNTMxNGUwN2IyZTQzODMxZTVhNjQwM2UiLCJwIjoiaiJ9)

Reviewer: I should have mentioned, I implemented this in between making the previous comment and now. That ticket is to do with heterogeneous workflows.

Author: [e150bda](https://github.com/zapatacomputing/orquestra-workflow-sdk/pull/96/commits/e150bdad7e314f7da95b1c319fd2d90be78360ac)

Setting Workflow Resources
--------------------------

Resources can also be configured at the workflow definition level using the same syntax as with tasks, with one difference - the ``sdk.Resources()`` object my additionally specify a number of nodes to be requested for the workflow. The full parameter list is therefore:
* ``cpu``: number of cores.
* ``memory``: amount of RAM (bytes).
* ``disk``: disk space (bytes).
* ``gpu``: whether access to a gpu unit is required (``1`` if a GPU is required, ``0`` otherwise).
* ``nodes``: the number of nodes requested.

.. code-block::
    :caption: workflow resource request example

    @sdk.workflow(
        resources=sdk.Resources(cpu="100m", memory="1Gi", disk="10Gi", gpu="1", nodes=5)
    )
    def my_workflow():
        ...

.. note:: nodes
    Note that unlike the other parameters, ``nodes`` must be an integer rather than a string.

> In most cases, defining resources in this way will be unnecessary as Compute Engine can infer the overall resource requirements from the aggregated requirements of individual tasks. The primary use-cases for this facility is to provision additional resources that aren't covered by the task definitions, such as when tasks spawn additional actors or remote functions, or to specify a the number of nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the workflow resource request is only utilised by Compute Engine.
If resources are not provided, Compute Engine will infer the overall resource requirements from the aggregated requirements of individual tasks.
Tweaking the resource request may be required when your tasks spawn additional actors or remote functions to avoid deadlock, see below.
```
